README.md, before:

# Salesforce Marketing Cloud Content Builder Block SDK

## Introduction

This SDK is intended to simplify 3rd party block development for the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Content Builder.
It provides domain validation and simple method calls wrapping around the cross-document messaging the editor uses to communicate with 3rd party blocks.

## Installation

The SDK can be used as a simple script tag, or pulled in as a node module.

Tag:

```html
<html>
  <head></head>
  <body>
    <script src="path/to/blocksdk.js"></script>
    <script>
      var sdk = new window.sfdc.BlockSDK();
      // do something with the sdk
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
Module:

```node
var SDK = require('blocksdk');
var sdk = new SDK();
// do something with the sdk
```

## Initialization Options

- blockEditorWidth
  - Type: `String|Number`
  - Default: `undefined`
  - Set the available width for the block editor.  The editor may restrict the available values.
- tabs
  - Type: `Array`
  - Default: `['stylingblock', 'htmlblock']`
  - Required: `false`
  - If provided, the editor will display the Content tab, in addition to the tabs specified. If an empty array is passed,only the Content tab will appear.
  - See [CustomTabs](#custom-tabs) for documentation

## Usage

Once you have an instantiated SDK, the following methods are available to you:

### getContent(callback(:content))

Gets the block's current content and passes it into the callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
callback(:content) | function | Receives the current content stored in the block (string) |

#### Notes

* This is the content which will be sent in the final message.

### setContent(content, callback(:newContent))

Sets the block's content. The updated content is passed into a callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
content | string | The requested content with which the block should be set | X
callback(:newContent) | function | Receives the content stored in the block (string) |

#### Notes

* The content passed into the callback will not necessarily match the content passed as the first parameter. There is some processing that happens to remove potentially malicious content and to correct HTML. Always ensure that the callback's content is used for the source of truth for the current content rather than the content passed.

### setSuperContent(superContent, callback(:newSuperContent))

Sets the block's visible preview content.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
superContent | string | The requested preview content with which the block should be set | X
callback(:newSuperContent) | function | Receives the content stored in the block (string) |

#### Notes

* Super content is used for preview purposes only. It allows the block to show the user a representation of the block in the preview, in case the content being set contains AMPscript, GTL, or anything else that isn't pure HTML and wouldn't look nice in the preview.
* Similar to setContent, the content passed to the callback might not necessarily match the superContent passed in due to block processing. This is less of a concern because super content should never be used for consumed by the custom block. It should only ever set. Hence the lack of support for getSuperContent.

### getData(callback(:dataObject))

Gets the custom block's metadata and passes it into a callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
callback(:data) | function | Receives the current metadata stored in the block (object) |

#### Notes

* The metadata should be used as the custom block's way to retain state.
* It must be a JSON serializable object.

### setData(dataObject, callback(:dataObject))

Sets the block's metadata. The updated data object is passed into a callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
dataObject | object | The requested metadata with which the block should be set | X
callback(:data) | function | Receives the new metadata stored in the block (object) |

#### Notes

* This will always overwrite the entire metadata. Any partial data object can cause data loss. Be sure to always extend your current metadata to have a full data object before passing to setData

### getUserData(callback(:dataObject))

Get some context for the currently authenticated user. The updated data object is passed into a callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
callback(:data) | function | Receives the some data about the currently authenticated user (object) |

#### Notes

* The object argument of the callback contains a `stack` and `locale` property.

### setBlockEditorWidth(width, callback())

Sets the width of the current block.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
width | `number` or `string` | The block width. Can be specified as a number, or a string like `500px` | X
callback() | function | Called once the block has expanded to the specified width |

#### Notes

* width must be >425px and <850px. Percentage widths are not supported.
* The width is not persisted anywhere, which means that if a block always wants to be 500px wide, the width must be set every time the block is opened.

### triggerAuth(appID)

Opens a hidden iframe to the SSO page for the appID provided. This will result in the block's server side login url (the login URL for the appID) to be passed a JWT so it can request a token.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
appID | `string` | The installed package ID or appExchange appID in alphanum xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx `string` format | X

## Example

```javascript
var sdk = new window.sfdc.BlockSDK();
sdk.getContent(function (content) {
  content += '.';
  sdk.setContent(content, function (setContent) {
    // block content is now its original content + '.'
  });
});
```

## Custom Tabs

Custom tabs allow a block to modify which tabs the Content Builder editor loads for the custom block.

The tabs array can be a mix of both `string` and `object` types. The possible string values
are `stylingblock` and `htmlblock`. The `object` values must provide the following three values.
- `key`
    - Type: `string`
    - This is a unique identifier for the tab, and should be different for every custom tab a block defines.
    - Ex: `my-custom-tab`
- `name`
    - Type: `string` or `object`
    - The name of the tab. If no localization is needed, provide a `string`. If localization is needed,
    provide an `object` with key value pairs of the culture code and localized value. If the user's locale
    is not provided in the object, Content Builder will first try to use the en-US fallback, then fallback 
    to the first value provided.
    - Ex: `My Custom Tab` or `{'en-US': 'English Name', 'fr': 'French Name'}`
- `url`
    - Type: `string`
    - The url of the custom block to load. This should be similar to the url entered in Installed Packages
    - Ex: `https://localhost:3000/customtab`

#### Examples:
Content tab, Block Style tab
```
['stylingblock']
```

Content tab only
```
[]
```

Content tab, custom tab named 'My Custom Tab'
```
[{
    name: 'My Custom Tab',
    key: 'customtab',
    url: 'https://localhost:3000/customtab'
}]
```

Content tab, custom tab named 'My Custom Tab', Block Style tab, HTML tab
```
[{
    name: 'My Custom Tab',
    key: 'customtab',
    url: 'https://localhost:3000/customtab'
}, 'stylingblock', 'htmlblock']
```


Content tab, custom tab with different names depending on the user's language
```
[{
    name: {
        'en-US': 'English Name',
        'fr': 'French Name'
    },
    key: 'localized-tab',
    url: 'https://localhost:3000/customtab'
}]
```

Commit message:

add note about declaring standard tabs with custom tab

README.md, after:

# Salesforce Marketing Cloud Content Builder Block SDK

## Introduction

This SDK is intended to simplify 3rd party block development for the Salesforce Marketing Cloud Content Builder.
It provides domain validation and simple method calls wrapping around the cross-document messaging the editor uses to communicate with 3rd party blocks.

## Installation

The SDK can be used as a simple script tag, or pulled in as a node module.

Tag:

```html
<html>
  <head></head>
  <body>
    <script src="path/to/blocksdk.js"></script>
    <script>
      var sdk = new window.sfdc.BlockSDK();
      // do something with the sdk
    </script>
  </body>
</html>
```
Module:

```node
var SDK = require('blocksdk');
var sdk = new SDK();
// do something with the sdk
```

## Initialization Options

- blockEditorWidth
  - Type: `String|Number`
  - Default: `undefined`
  - Set the available width for the block editor.  The editor may restrict the available values.
- tabs
  - Type: `Array`
  - Default: `['stylingblock', 'htmlblock']`
  - Required: `false`
  - If provided, the editor will display the Content tab, in addition to the tabs specified. If an empty array is passed,only the Content tab will appear.
  - See [CustomTabs](#custom-tabs) for documentation

## Usage

Once you have an instantiated SDK, the following methods are available to you:

### getContent(callback(:content))

Gets the block's current content and passes it into the callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
callback(:content) | function | Receives the current content stored in the block (string) |

#### Notes

* This is the content which will be sent in the final message.

### setContent(content, callback(:newContent))

Sets the block's content. The updated content is passed into a callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
content | string | The requested content with which the block should be set | X
callback(:newContent) | function | Receives the content stored in the block (string) |

#### Notes

* The content passed into the callback will not necessarily match the content passed as the first parameter. There is some processing that happens to remove potentially malicious content and to correct HTML. Always ensure that the callback's content is used for the source of truth for the current content rather than the content passed.

### setSuperContent(superContent, callback(:newSuperContent))

Sets the block's visible preview content.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
superContent | string | The requested preview content with which the block should be set | X
callback(:newSuperContent) | function | Receives the content stored in the block (string) |

#### Notes

* Super content is used for preview purposes only. It allows the block to show the user a representation of the block in the preview, in case the content being set contains AMPscript, GTL, or anything else that isn't pure HTML and wouldn't look nice in the preview.
* Similar to setContent, the content passed to the callback might not necessarily match the superContent passed in due to block processing. This is less of a concern because super content should never be used for consumed by the custom block. It should only ever set. Hence the lack of support for getSuperContent.

### getData(callback(:dataObject))

Gets the custom block's metadata and passes it into a callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
callback(:data) | function | Receives the current metadata stored in the block (object) |

#### Notes

* The metadata should be used as the custom block's way to retain state.
* It must be a JSON serializable object.

### setData(dataObject, callback(:dataObject))

Sets the block's metadata. The updated data object is passed into a callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
dataObject | object | The requested metadata with which the block should be set | X
callback(:data) | function | Receives the new metadata stored in the block (object) |

#### Notes

* This will always overwrite the entire metadata. Any partial data object can cause data loss. Be sure to always extend your current metadata to have a full data object before passing to setData

### getUserData(callback(:dataObject))

Get some context for the currently authenticated user. The updated data object is passed into a callback function.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
callback(:data) | function | Receives the some data about the currently authenticated user (object) |

#### Notes

* The object argument of the callback contains a `stack` and `locale` property.

### setBlockEditorWidth(width, callback())

Sets the width of the current block.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
width | `number` or `string` | The block width. Can be specified as a number, or a string like `500px` | X
callback() | function | Called once the block has expanded to the specified width |

#### Notes

* width must be >425px and <850px. Percentage widths are not supported.
* The width is not persisted anywhere, which means that if a block always wants to be 500px wide, the width must be set every time the block is opened.

### triggerAuth(appID)

Opens a hidden iframe to the SSO page for the appID provided. This will result in the block's server side login url (the login URL for the appID) to be passed a JWT so it can request a token.

#### Parameters

Name | Type | Description | Required
--- | --- | --- | ---
appID | `string` | The installed package ID or appExchange appID in alphanum xxxxxxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx `string` format | X

## Example

```javascript
var sdk = new window.sfdc.BlockSDK();
sdk.getContent(function (content) {
  content += '.';
  sdk.setContent(content, function (setContent) {
    // block content is now its original content + '.'
  });
});
```

## Custom Tabs

Custom tabs allow a block to modify which tabs the Content Builder editor loads for the custom block.

>If you declare a custom tab, the block also displays the Content tab but not the HTML and Block Settings tabs. To display those tabs, declare `htmlblock` and `stylingblock` in your custom tab code.

The tabs array can be a mix of both `string` and `object` types. The possible string values
are `stylingblock` and `htmlblock`. The `object` values must provide the following three values.
- `key`
    - Type: `string`
    - This is a unique identifier for the tab, and should be different for every custom tab a block defines.
    - Ex: `my-custom-tab`
- `name`
    - Type: `string` or `object`
    - The name of the tab. If no localization is needed, provide a `string`. If localization is needed,
    provide an `object` with key value pairs of the culture code and localized value. If the user's locale
    is not provided in the object, Content Builder will first try to use the en-US fallback, then fallback 
    to the first value provided.
    - Ex: `My Custom Tab` or `{'en-US': 'English Name', 'fr': 'French Name'}`
- `url`
    - Type: `string`
    - The url of the custom block to load. This should be similar to the url entered in Installed Packages
    - Ex: `https://localhost:3000/customtab`

#### Examples:
Content tab, Block Style tab
```
['stylingblock']
```

Content tab only
```
[]
```

Content tab, custom tab named 'My Custom Tab'
```
[{
    name: 'My Custom Tab',
    key: 'customtab',
    url: 'https://localhost:3000/customtab'
}]
```

Content tab, custom tab named 'My Custom Tab', Block Style tab, HTML tab
```
[{
    name: 'My Custom Tab',
    key: 'customtab',
    url: 'https://localhost:3000/customtab'
}, 'stylingblock', 'htmlblock']
```


Content tab, custom tab with different names depending on the user's language
```
[{
    name: {
        'en-US': 'English Name',
        'fr': 'French Name'
    },
    key: 'localized-tab',
    url: 'https://localhost:3000/customtab'
}]
```
